README.md, before:

# Pay My Buddy

<div align="center">
    <img src="./assets/logo.svg" alt="Logo PayMyBuddy" width="10%">
</div>

PayMyBuddy enables the sharing of real world currency between users in a simple, fast, and secure manner.

## Table of contents

- [Pay My Buddy](#pay-my-buddy)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Running the application](#running-the-application)
    - [Gradle](#gradle)
  - [Database schema](#database-schema)

## Running the application

There is 1 way to run this application:

### Gradle

Run the tests using:

```sh
./gradlew test
```

Run the mutation tests using:

```sh
./gradlew pitest
```

Build the application as an uber JAR (a JAR containing all of its dependencies) using:

```sh
./gradlew bootJar
java -jar build/**.jar # Run
```

Run the application using:

```sh
cp .env.CHANGEME .env
# Edit the `DATABASE_**` variables to match your PostgreSQL instance
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh # Install Rust, used to install the migration tool
cargo install sqlx-cli
sqlx database setup
./gradlew bootRun
```

## Database schema

![Schema](./assets/db_physical_schema.svg)

Commit message:

`README`: Add how to run the application using containers

README.md, after:

# Pay My Buddy

<div align="center">
    <img src="./assets/logo.svg" alt="Logo PayMyBuddy" width="10%">
</div>

PayMyBuddy enables the sharing of real world currency between users in a simple, fast, and secure manner.

## Table of contents

- [Pay My Buddy](#pay-my-buddy)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Running the application](#running-the-application)
    - [Gradle](#gradle)
    - [Container](#container)
  - [Database schema](#database-schema)

## Running the application

There are 2 different way to run this application:

### Gradle

Run the tests using:

```sh
./gradlew test
```

Run the mutation tests using:

```sh
./gradlew pitest
```

Build the application as an uber JAR (a JAR containing all of its dependencies) using:

```sh
./gradlew bootJar
java -jar build/**.jar # Run
```

Run the application using:

```sh
cp .env.CHANGEME .env
# Edit the `DATABASE_**` variables to match your PostgreSQL instance
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh # Install Rust, used to install the migration tool
cargo install sqlx-cli
sqlx database setup
./gradlew bootRun
```

### Container

You can run the application using an [OCI compliant container engine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Container_Initiative) (like [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [Podman](https://podman.io/)) that supports the [compose specification](https://compose-spec.io/).

```sh
# Using Docker
docker-compose up -d
# Using Podman
podman-compose up -d
```

## Database schema

![Schema](./assets/db_physical_schema.svg)
